UNITED INDIA INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
PRIVATE CAR STANDALONE OWN DAMAGE POLICY
Whereas the insured by a proposal and declaration dated as stated in the Schedule which shall be the basis of this contract and is
deemed to be incorporated herein has applied to the Company for the insurance hereinafter contained and has paid the premium
mentioned in the schedule as consideration for such insurance in respect of accidental loss or damage occurring during the period of
insurance.
NOW THIS POLICY WITNESSETH:
That subject to the Terms Exceptions and Conditions contained herein or endorsed or expressed hereon;
SECTION - I. LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO THE VEHICLE INSURED
1. The Company will indemnify the insured against loss or damage to the vehicle insured hereunder and / or its accessories whilst
thereon
i. by fire explosion self ignition or lightning;
ii. by burglary housebreaking or theft;
iii. by riot and strike;
iv. by earthquake (fire and shock damage);
v. by flood typhoon hurricane storm tempest inundation cyclone hailstorm frost;
vi. by accidental external means;
vii. by malicious act;
viii. by terrorist activity;
ix. whilst in transit by road rail inland- waterway lift elevator or air;
x. by landslide rockslide;
Subject to a deduction for depreciation at the rates mentioned below in respect of parts replaced :
(1) For all rubber/ nylon/ plastic parts, tyres and tubes, batteries and air bags 50%
(2) For fibre glass components 30%
(3) For all parts made of glass Nil
(4) Rate of depreciation for all other parts including wooden parts will be as per the following schedule :
AGE OF VEHICLE % OF DEPRECIATION
Not exceeding 6 months Nil
Exceeding 6 months but not exceeding 1 year 5%
Exceeding 1 year but not exceeding 2 years 10%
Exceeding 2 years but not exceeding 3 years 15%
Exceeding 3 years but not exceeding 4 years. 25%
Exceeding 4 years but not exceeding 5 years 35%
Exceeding 5 year but not exceeding 10 years 40%
Exceeding 10 years 50%
(5) Rate of Depreciation for Painting: In the case of painting, the depreciation rate of 50% shall be applied only on the material
cost of total painting charges. In case of consolidated bill for painting charges, the material component shall be considered as 25% of
total painting charges for the purpose of applying the depreciation.
2. The Company shall not be liable to make any payment in respect of :-
(a) consequential loss, depreciation, wear and tear, mechanical or electrical breakdown failures or breakages.
(b) damage to tyres and tubes unless the vehicle insured is damaged at the same time in which case the liability of the company
shall be limited to 50% of the cost of replacement.
and
(c) any accidental loss or damage suffered whilst the insured or any person driving the vehicle with the knowledge and consent of
the insured is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
3. In the event of the vehicle being disabled by reason of loss or damage covered under this Policy the Company will bear the
reasonable cost of protection and removal to the nearest repairer and redelivery to the insured but not exceeding in all Rs. 1500/- in
respect of any one accident.
4. The insured may authorise the repair of the vehicle necessitated by damage for which the Company may be liable under this Policy
provided that :
a) the estimated cost of such repair including replacements, if any, does not exceed Rs.500/-;
b) the Company is furnished forthwith with a detailed estimate of the cost of repairs; and
c) the insured shall give the Company every assistance to see that such repair is necessary and the charges are reasonable.
SUM INSURED - INSURED'S DECLARED VALUE (IDV)
The Insureds Declared Value (IDV) of the vehicle will be deemed to be the SUM INSURED for the purpose of this policy which is fixed at
the commencement of each policy period for the insured vehicle.
The IDV of the vehicle (and accessories if any fitted to the vehicle) is to be fixed on the basis of the manufacturers listed selling price of
the brand and model as the vehicle insured at the commencement of insurance/renewal and adjusted for depreciation (as per schedule
below).
The schedule of age-wise depreciation as shown below is applicable for the purpose of Total Loss/Constructive Total Loss (TL/CTL) claims
only.
THE SCHEDULE OF DEPRECIATION FOR FIXING IDV OF THE VEHICLE
AGE OF VEHICLE % OF DEPRECIATION FOR FIXING IDV
Not exceeding 6 months 5%
Exceeding 6 months but not exceeding 1 year 15%
Exceeding 1 year but not exceeding 2 years 20%
Exceeding 2 years but not exceeding 3 years 30%
Exceeding 3 years but not exceeding 4 years 40%
Exceeding 4 years but not exceeding 5 years 50%
IDV of vehicles beyond 5 years of age and of obsolete models of the vehicles ( i.e. models which the manufacturers have discontinued to manufacture) is
to be determined on the basis of an understanding between the insurer and the insured.
IDV shall be treated as the Market Value throughout the policy period without any further depreciation for the purpose of Total Loss
(TL) /Constructive Total Loss (CTL) claims.
The insured vehicle shall be treated as a CTL if the aggregate cost of retrieval and / or repair of the vehicle, subject to terms and conditions of the policy,
exceeds 75% of the IDV of the vehicle.
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS ( Applicable to all Sections of the Policy) The
Company shall not be liable under this Policy in respect of :
1. any liability for death or injury to any passenger or third party or damage to property within or outside the vehicle caused by or arising
out of use of the vehicle.
2. any accidental loss damage caused sustained or incurred outside the geographical area.
3. any accidental loss damage caused sustained or incurred whilst the vehicle insured herein is
(a) being used otherwise than in accordance with the "Limitations as to Use"
or
(b) being driven by or is for the purpose of being driven by him/her in the charge of any person other than a Driver as stated in the
Driver's Clause.
4.(i) Any accident loss or damage to any property whatsoever or any loss or expense whatsoever resulting or arising there from or any consequential loss
(ii) any damage of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by or arising from ionising radiations or
contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste from the combustion of nuclear fuel. For the purposes of
this exception combustion shall include any self-sustaining process of nuclear fission.
5. Any accidental loss or damage directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by or arising from nuclear weapons material
6. Any accidental loss damage directly or indirectly or proximately or remotely occasioned by or contributed to by or traceable to or arising
out of or in connection with war, invasion, the act of foreign enemies, hostilities or warlike operations (whether before or after declaration
of war), civil war, mutiny rebellion, military or usurped power or by any direct or indirect consequences of any of the said occurrences and
in the event of any claim hereunder the Insured shall prove that the accidental loss damage arose independently of and was in no way
connected with or occasioned by or contributed to by or traceable to any of the said occurrences or any consequences thereof and in
default of such proof the Company shall not be liable to make any payment in respect of such a claim.
DEDUCTIBLE
The Company shall not be liable for each and every claim under Section - I (loss of or damage to the vehicle insured) of this Policy in
respect of the deductible stated in the schedule.
CONDITIONS
This Policy and the Schedule shall be read together and any word or expression to which a specific meaning has been attached in any part
of this Policy or of the Schedule shall bear the same meaning wherever it may appear.
1. Notice shall be given in writing to the Company immediately upon the occurrence of any accidental loss or damage in the event of any
claim and thereafter the insured shall give all such information and assistance as the Company shall require. In case of theft or criminal
act which may be the subject of a claim under this Policy the insured shall give immediate notice to the police and co-operate with the
Company in securing the conviction of the offender.
2. The Company may at its own option repair reinstate or replace the vehicle or part thereof and/or its accessories or may pay in cash the
amount of the loss or damage and the liability of the Company shall not exceed:
(a) for total loss / constructive total loss of the vehicle - the Insured''s Declared Value (IDV) of the vehicle (including accessories
thereon) as specified in the Schedule less the value of the wreck
(b) for partial losses, i.e. losses other than Total Loss/Constructive Total Loss of the vehicle - actual and reasonable costs of repair
and/or replacement of parts lost/damaged subject to depreciation as per limits specified.
3. The Insured shall take all reasonable steps to safeguard the vehicle from loss or damage and to maintain it in efficient condition and
the Company shall have at all times free and full access to examine the vehicle or any part thereof or any driver or employee of the
insured. In the event of any accident or breakdown, the vehicle shall not be left unattended without proper precautions being taken to
prevent further damage or loss and if the vehicle be driven before the necessary repairs are effected any extension of the damage or any
further damage to the vehicle shall be entirely at the insured''s own risk.
4. The Company may cancel the policy by sending seven days notice by recorded delivery to the insured at insured's last known address
and in such event will return to the insured the premium paid less the pro rata portion thereof for the period the Policy has been in force
or the policy may be cancelled at any time by the insured on seven days‟ notice by recorded delivery and provided no claim has arisen
during the currency of the policy, the insured shall be entitled to a return of premium less premium at the Company's Short Period rates
for the period the Policy has been in force. Return of the premium by the company will be subject to retention of the minimum premium
of Rs.100/- (or Rs.25/- in respect of vehicles specifically designed/modified for use by blind/handicapped/mentally challenged persons).
Where the ownership of the vehicle is transferred, the policy cannot be cancelled unless evidence that the vehicle is insured elsewhere is
produced.
5. If at the time of occurrence of an event that gives rise to any claim under this policy there is in existence any other insurance covering
the same loss/damage, the Company shall not be liable to pay or contribute more than its ratable proportion of any compensation, cost
or expense.
6. If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid under this policy (liability being otherwise admitted), such
difference shall independent of all other questions be referred to the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties
to the dispute or if they cannot agree upon a single arbitrator within 30 days of any party invoking Arbitration, the same shall be referred
to a panel of three arbitrators comprising two arbitrators one to be appointed by each of the parties to the dispute / difference, and a
third arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators who shall act as the presiding arbitrator and Arbitration shall be conducted under
and in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.
It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be referable to Arbitration as hereinbefore provided, if the Company has disputed or
not accepted liability under or in respect of this policy.
It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be condition precedent to any right of action or suit upon this policy that the
award by such arbitrator/ arbitrators of the amount of the loss or damage shall be first obtained.
It is also hereby further expressly agreed and declared that if the Company shall disclaim liability to the insured for any claim hereunder
and such claim shall not, within twelve calendar months from the date of such disclaimer have been made the subject matter of a suit in
a court of law, then the claim shall for all purposes be deemed to have been abandoned and shall not thereafter be recoverable
hereunder.
7. The due observance and fulfillment of the terms, conditions and endorsements of this Policy in so far as they relate to anything to be
done or complied with by the insured and the truth of the statements and answers in the said proposal shall be conditions precedent to
any liability of the Company to make any payment under this Policy.
8. In the event of the death of the sole insured, this policy will not immediately lapse but will remain valid for a period of three months
from the date of the death of insured or until the expiry of this policy (whichever is earlier). During the said period, legal heir(s) of the
insured to whom the custody and use of the Motor Vehicle passes may apply to have this Policy transferred to the name(s) of the heir(s)
or obtain a new insurance policy for the Motor Vehicle.
Where such legal heir(s) desire(s) to apply for transfer of this policy or obtain a new policy for the vehicle such heir(s) should make an application to the
Company accordingly within the aforesaid period. All such applications should be accompanied by:-
a) Death Certificate in respect of the insured
b) Proof of title to the vehicle
c) Original Policy
( DUPLICATE )
UIIC - 7 ENDORSEMENTS FOR NIL DEPRECIATION ADD ON COVER WITHOUT ADD ON EXCESS
In consideration of payment of additional premium notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the policy, it is hereby understood and agreed
that in the event of a Partial Loss Claim for repairs to the vehicle insured under the policy if admitted, no depreciation as specified in Section I of the policy
shall apply.
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions, limitations & exceptions of the policy.
IMT ENDORSEMENTS : 7,22
IMT.7. Vehicles subject to Hypothecation Agreement
It is hereby declared and agreed that the vehicle insured is pledged to / hypothecated with HSBC BANK (hereinafter referred to as the
"Pledgee") and it is further understood and agreed that the Pledgee is interested in any monies which but for this Endorsement would be
payable to the insured under this policy in respect of such loss or damage to the vehicle insured as cannot be made good by repair and /
or replacement of parts and such monies shall be paid to the Pledgee as long as they are the Pledgee of the vehicle insured and their
receipt shall be a full and final discharge to the insurer in respect of such loss or damage.
It is further declared and agreed that for the purpose of the Personal Accident Cover for the owner-driver granted under this policy, the
insured named in the policy will continue to be deemed as the owner-driver subject to compliance of provisions of the policy relating to
this cover.
Save as by this Endorsement expressly agreed that nothing herein shall modify or affect the rights or liabilities of the Insured or the Insurer
respectively under or in connection with this Policy or any term, provision or condition thereof.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this policy.
IMT.22. Compulsory Deductible (Applicable to Private Cars, three wheelers rated as private cars, all motorized two wheelers, taxis,
private car type vehicle plying for public/private hire, private type taxi let out on private hire)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the policy it is hereby understood and agreed that the insured shall bear under
Section 1 of the policy in respect of each and every event (including event giving rise to a total loss/constructive total loss) the first
1000 (or any less expenditure which may be incurred) of any expenditure for which provision has been made under this policy and/or of
any expenditure by the insurer in the exercise of his discretion under Condition 3 of this policy.
If the expenditure incurred by the insurer shall include any amount for which the insured is responsible hereunder such amount shall be
repaid by the insured to the insurer forthwith.
For the purpose of this Endorsement the expression "event" shall mean an event or series of events arising out of one cause in
connection with the vehicle insured in respect of which indemnity is provided under this policy.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and exceptions of this Policy.