POLICY TERMS & CONDITIONS
PACKAGE POLICY WORDINGS FOR PRIVATE CAR
Whereas the insured by a proposal and declaration dated as stated in the Schedule which
shall be the basis of this contract and is deemed to be incorporated herein has applied to the
Company for the insurance hereinafter contained and has paid the premium mentioned in the
schedule as consideration for such insurance in respect of accidental loss or damage occurring
during the period of insurance.
NOW THIS POLICY WITNESSETH
That subject to the Terms Exceptions and Conditions contained herein or endorsed or
expressed hereon;
SECTION I. LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO THE VEHICLE INSURED
1. The Company will indemnify the insured against loss or damage to the vehicle insured
hereunder and / or its accessories whilst thereon
i. By fire explosion self-ignition or lightning ;
ii. By burglary housebreaking or theft ;
iii. By riot and strike;
iv. By earthquake (fire and shock damage);
v. By flood typhoon hurricane storm tempest inundation cyclone hailstorm frost;
vi. By accidental external means;
vii. By malicious act;
viii. By terrorist activity;
ix. Whilst in transit by road rail inland-waterway lift elevator or air;
x. By landslide rockslide.
Subject to a deduction for depreciation at the rates mentioned below in respect of parts replaced:
a. For all rubber/ nylon / plastic parts, tyres and tubes,
batteries and air bags - 50%
b. For fibre glass components - 30%
c. For all parts made of glass - Nil
1
d. Rate of depreciation for all other parts including wooden parts will be as per the
following schedule.
AGE OF VEHICLE % OF DEPRECIATION
Not exceeding 6 months Nil
Exceeding 6 months but not exceeding 1 year 5%
Exceeding 1 year but not exceeding 2 years 10%
Exceeding 2 years but not exceeding 3 years 15%
Exceeding 3 years but not exceeding 4 years 25%
Exceeding 4 years but not exceeding 5 years 35%
Exceeding 5 years but not exceeding 10 years 40%
Exceeding 10 years 50%
e. Rate of Depreciation for Painting: In the case of painting, the depreciation rate of 50%
shall be applied only on the material cost of total painting charges. In case of a
consolidated bill for painting charges, the material component shall be considered as
25% of the total painting charges for the purpose of applying the depreciation
2. The Company shall not be liable to make any payment in respect of:-
a. Consequential loss, depreciation, wear and tear, mechanical or electrical
breakdown, failures or breakages
b. Damage to tyres and tubes unless the vehicle is damaged at the same time in which
case the liability of the company shall be limited to 50% of the cost of replacement.
c. Any accidental loss or damage suffered whilst the insured or any person driving
the vehicle with the knowledge and consent of the insured is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or drugs.
a. In the event of the vehicle being disabled by reason of loss or damage covered under this
Policy the Company will bear the reasonable cost of protection and removal to the
nearest repairer and redelivery to the insured but not exceeding in all ` 1500/- in
respect of any one accident.
3. The insured may authorize the repair of the vehicle necessitated by damage for which
the Company may be liable under this Policy provided that:
a. The estimated cost of such repair including replacements, if any, does not exceed
` 500/-
b. The Company is furnished forthwith with a detailed estimate of the cost of
repairs; and
c. The insured shall give the Company every assistance to see that such repair is
necessary and the charges are reasonable.
2
SUM INSURED, INSURED'S DECLARED VALUE (IDV)
The Insured's Declared Value (IDV) of the vehicle will be deemed to be the 'SUM
INSURED' for the purpose of this policy which is fixed at the commencement of each policy
period for the insured vehicle.
The IDV of the vehicle (and accessories if any fitted to the vehicle) is to be fixed on th e basis of
the manufacturer's listed selling price of the brand and model as the vehicle insured at the
commencement of insurance/renewal and adjusted for depreciation (as per schedule below).
The schedule of age-wise depreciation as shown below is applicable for the purpose of Total
Loss/Constructive Total Loss (TL/CTL) claims only.
THE SCHEDULE OF DEPRECIATION FOR FIXING IDV OF THE VEHICLE
AGE OF THE VEHICLE % OF DEPRECIATION FOR FIXING IDV
Not exceeding 6 months 5%
Exceeding 6 months but not exceeding 1 year 15%
Exceeding 1 year but not exceeding 2 years 20%
Exceeding 2 years but not exceeding 3 years 30%
Exceeding 3 years but not exceeding 4 years 40%
Exceeding 4 years but not exceeding 5 years 50%
IDV of vehicles beyond 5 years of age and of obsolete models of the vehicles (i.e. models which
the manufacturers have discontinued to manufacture) is to be determined on the basis of an
understanding between the insurer and the insured.
IDV shall be treated as the 'Market Value' throughout the policy period without any further
depreciation for the purpose of Total Loss (TL) / Constructive Total Loss (CTL) claims.
The insured vehicle shall be treated as a CTL if the aggregate cost of retrieval and / or repair of
the vehicle, subject to terms and conditions of the policy, exceeds 75% of the IDV of the
vehicle.
SECTION II- LIABILITY TO THIRD PARTIES:
1. Subject to the limits of liability as laid down in the Schedule hereto, the Company will
indemnify the insured in the event of an accident caused by or arising out of the use of the
vehicle, against all sums which the insured shall become legally liable to pay in respect of
:-
i. Death of or bodily injury to any person including occupants carried in the vehicle
(provided such occupants are not carried for hire or reward) but except so far as it is
necessary to meet the requirements of Motor Vehicles Act, the Company shall not be
3
liable where such death or injury arises out of and in the course of the employment of
such person by the insured.
ii. Damage to property other than property belonging to the insured or held in trust or in
the custody or control of the insured.
2. The Company will pay all costs and expenses incurred with its written consent.
3. In terms of and subject to the limitations of the indemnity granted by this section to the
insured, the Company will indemnify any driver who is driving the vehicle on the insured's
order or with insured's permission provided that such driver shall as though he/she was the
insured observe fulfill and be subject to the terms exceptions and conditions of this Policy in so
far as they apply.
4. In the event of the death of any person entitled to indemnity under this policy the Company
will in respect of the liability incurred by such person indemnify his/her personal
representative in terms of and subject to the limitations of this Policy provided that such
personal representative shall as though such representative was the insured observe fulfill
and be subject to the terms exceptions and conditions of this Policy in so far as they
apply.
5. The Company may at its own option
a. Arrange for representation at any Inquest or Fatal Inquiry in respect of any death
which may be the subject of indemnity under this Policy and
b. Undertake the defence of proceedings in any Court of Law in respect of any act or
alleged offence causing or relating to any event which may be the subject of
indemnity under this policy.
The policy shall be operative whilst the insured vehicle is being used for the purpose of towing
any one disabled mechanically propelled vehicle and the indemnity provided by Section II of this
policy shall subject to its terms and limitations be extended to apply in respect of liability in
connection with such towed vehicle.
Provided always that
a) Such towed vehicle is not towed for reward
b) The Company shall not be liable by reason of this section of this policy in respect of damage
to such towed vehicle or property being conveyed thereby.
SECTION III
PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVER FOR OWNER-DRIVER SECTION
1. The Company undertakes to pay compensation as per the following scale for bodily injury/
death sustained by the owner-driver of the vehicle, in direct connection with the vehicle
insured or whilst driving or mounting into/dismounting from the vehicle insured or whilst
4
traveling in it as a co-driver, caused by violent accidental external and visible means which
independent of any other cause shall within six calendar months of such injury result in:
Nature of Injury Scale of Compensation
(i) Death 100%
(ii) Loss of two limbs or sight of two eyes or one
limb and sight of one eye 100%
(iii) Loss of one limb or sight of one eye 50%
(iv) Permanent total disablement from injuries other
than named above 100%
Provided always that
a. Compensation shall be payable under only one of the items (i) to (iv) above in
respect of the owner-driver arising out of any one occurrence and the total liability of
the insurer shall not in the aggregate exceed the sum of ` 15 lakhs for during any one
period of insurance.
b. No compensation shall be payable in respect of death or bodily injury directly or
indirectly wholly or in part arising or resulting from or traceable to (1) intentional
self-injury, suicide or attempted suicide physical defect or infirmity or (2) an
accident happening whilst such person is under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or drugs.
c. Such compensation shall be payable directly to the insured or to his/her legal
representatives whose receipt shall be the full discharge in respect of the injury to the
insured.
2. This cover is subject to
a. The owner-driver is the registered owner of the vehicle insured herein;
b. The owner-driver is the insured named in this policy.
c. The owner-driver holds an effective driving license, in accordance with the
provisions of Rule 3 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, at the time of the
accident.
d. Having paid a premium of ` 750/-
e. Where more than one vehicle is owned by Insured , he/she can opt for this under
one vehicle only
AVOIDANCE OF CERTAIN TERMS AND RIGHT OF RECOVERY
Nothing in this Policy or any endorsement hereon shall affect the right of any person
indemnified by this Policy or any other person to recover an amount under or by virtue of the
provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act 1988.
But the insured shall repay to the Company all sums paid by the Company which the
Company would not have been liable to pay but for the said provisions.
5
APPLICATION OF LIMITS OF INDEMNITY (Applicable for Private Cars only)
In the event of any accident involving indemnity to more than one person any limitation by the
terms of this Policy and/or of any Endorsement thereon of the amount of any indemnity shall
apply to the aggregate amount of indemnity to all persons indemnified and such indemnity shall
apply in priority to the insured.
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS
(Applicable to all Sections of the Policy)
The Company shall not be liable under this Policy in respect of
1. Any accidental loss or damage and/or liability caused sustained or incurred outside the
geographical area;
2. Any claim arising out of any contractual liability;
3. Any accidental loss damage and/or liability caused sustained or incurred whilst the vehicle
insured herein is
a. Being used otherwise than in accordance with the .Limitations as to Use. or
b. Being driven by or is for the purpose of being driven by him/her in the charge of any
person other than a Driver as stated in the Driver's Clause.
4.
a. Any accidental loss or damage to any property whatsoever or any loss or expense
whatsoever resulting or arising there from or any consequential loss
b. Any liability of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by or
arising from ionising radiations or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear
fuel or from any nuclear waste from the combustion of nuclear fuel. For the
purpose of this exception combustion shall include any self- sustaining process
of nuclear fission.
5. Any accidental loss or damage or liability directly or indirectly caused by or
contributed to by or arising from nuclear weapons material.
6. Any accidental loss damage and/or liability directly or indirectly or proximately or
remotely occasioned by contributed to by or traceable to or arising out of or in
connection with war, invasion, the act of foreign enemies, hostilities or warlike operations
(whether before or after declaration of war) civil war, mutiny rebellion, military or usurped
power or by any direct or indirect consequence of any of the said occurrences and in the
event of any claim hereunder the insured shall prove that the accidental loss damage and/or
liability arose independently of and was in no way connected with or occasioned by or
contributed to by or traceable to any of the said occurrences or any consequences thereof
and in default of such proof, the Company shall not be liable to make any payment in
respect of such a claim.
6
DEDUCTIBLE
The Company shall not be liable for each and every claim under Section -I (loss of or damage
to the vehicle insured) of this Policy in respect of the deductible stated in the schedule.
CONDITIONS
This Policy and the Schedule shall be read together and any word or expression to which a specific
meaning has been attached in any part of this Policy or of the Schedule shall bear the same
meaning wherever it may appear.
1. Notice shall be given in writing to the Company immediately upon the occurrence of any
accidental loss or damage in the event of any claim and thereafter the insured shall give all
such information and assistance as the Company shall require. Every letter claim writ
summons and/or process or copy thereof shall be forwarded to the Company immediately on
receipt by the insured. Notice shall also be given in writing to the Company immediately the
insured shall have knowledge of any impending prosecution, inquest or fatal inquiry in
respect of any occurrence which may give rise to a claim under this policy.
In case of theft or criminal act which may be the subject of a claim under this Policy
the insured shall give immediate notice to the police and cooperate with the Company in
securing the conviction of the offender.
2. No admission offer promise payment or indemnity shall be made or given by or on
behalf of the insured without the written consent of the Company which shall be entitled
if it so desires to take over and conduct in the name of the insured the defence or settlement
of any claim or to prosecute in the name of the insured for its own benefit any claim for
indemnity or otherwise and shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or in
the settlement of any claim and the insured shall give all such information and assistance
as the Company may require.
3. The Company may at its own option repair reinstate or replace the vehicle or part thereof
and/or its accessories or may pay in cash the amount of the loss or damage and the liability
of the Company shall not exceed:
a. For total loss / constructive total loss of the vehicle -the Insured's Declared Value
(IDV) of the vehicle (including accessories thereon) as specified in the Schedule less
the value of the wreck.
b. For partial losses, i.e. losses other than Total Loss/Constructive Total Loss of the
vehicle actual and reasonable costs of repair and/or replacement of parts
lost/damaged subject to depreciation as per limits specified.
4. The insured shall take all reasonable steps to safeguard the vehicle from loss or damage
and to maintain it in efficient condition and the Company shall have at all times free and full
access to examine the vehicle or any part thereof or any driver or employee of the insured. In
the event of any accident or breakdown, the vehicle shall not be left unattended without proper
7
precautions being taken to prevent further damage or loss and if the vehicle be driven before
the necessary repairs are effected any extension of the damage or any further damage to the
vehicle shall be entirely at the insured's own risk.
5. The Company may cancel the policy by sending seven days' notice by recorded delivery
to the insured at insured's last known address and in such event will return to the insured the
premium paid less the pro rata portion thereof for the period the Policy has been in force or
the policy may be cancelled at any time by the insured on seven days. notice by recorded
delivery and provided no claim has arisen during the currency of the policy, the insured
shall be entitled to a return of premium less premium at the Company's Short Period rates
for the period the Policy has been in force. Return of the premium by the company will be
subject to retention of the minimum premium of ` 100/- (or ` 25/-in respect of vehicles
specifically designed/ modified for use by blind/handicapped/mentally challenged
persons). Where the ownership of the vehicle is transferred, the policy cannot be
cancelled unless evidence that the vehicle is insured elsewhere is produced.
6. If at the time of occurrence of an event that gives rise to any claim under this policy there is
in existence any other insurance covering the same liability, the Company shall not be
liable to pay or contribute more than its ratable proportion of any compensation, cost
or expense.
7. If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid under this policy (liability
being otherwise admitted), such difference shall independent of all other questions be
referred to the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties to the
dispute or if they cannot agree upon a single arbitrator within 30 days of any party invoking
Arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of three arbitrators comprising two
arbitrators one to be appointed by each of the parties to the dispute / difference, and a third
arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators who shall act as the presiding arbitrator and
Arbitration shall be conducted under and in accordance with the provisions of the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.
It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be referable to Arbitration
as hereinbefore provided, if the Company has disputed or not accepted liability under or in
respect of this policy.
It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be condition precedent to any
right of action or suit upon this policy that the award by such arbitrator/ arbitrators of
the amount of the loss or damage shall be first obtained.
"As per IRDAI Circular Ref: IRDAI/NL/CIR/MISC/188/10/2023, Dated:
27/10/2023, Arbitration Clause shall be deemed deleted from the policy."
It is also hereby further expressly agreed and declared that if the Company shall disclaim
liability to the insured for any claim hereunder and such claim shall not, within twelve
8
calendar months from the date of such disclaimer have been made the subject matter of a
suit in a court of law, then the claim shall for all purposes be deemed to have been abandoned
and shall not thereafter be recoverable hereunder.
8. The due observance and fulfillment of the terms, conditions and endorsements of this Policy
in so far as they relate to anything to be done or complied with by the insured and the truth
of the statements and answers in the said proposal shall be conditions precedent to any
liability of the Company to make any payment under this Policy.
9. In the event of the death of the sole insured, this policy will not immediately lapse but will
remain valid for a period of three months from the date of the death of insured or until the
expiry of this policy (whichever is earlier). During the said period, legal heir(s) of the
insured to whom the custody and use of the Motor Vehicle passes may apply to have this
Policy transferred to the name(s) of the heir(s) or obtain a new insurance policy for the
Motor Vehicle. Where such legal heir(s) desire(s) to apply for transfer of this policy or
obtain a new policy for the vehicle such heir(s) should make an application to the
Company accordingly within the aforesaid period. All such applications should be
accompanied by:-
a. Death Certificate in respect of the insured
b. Proof of title to the vehicle Original Policy.
c. Original policy
9